welcome to module 1 lesson 9 keyword
review this is the fourth step of the
eight part Google ads audit checklist
let's open up our audit checklist
template and get back into it all right
so we finished up the last section
around the ad groups let's dive into the
keywords so first things first are your
Search terms as close to perfect as
possible this is how we're gauging
quality of the clicks that we're paying
for on our Google ad campaigns so we're
going to navigate to The Search terms
report under the keyword section and we
want to compare our key word that
triggered the search to the actual term
of what somebody actually typed in
Google when they clicked on our ad so we
got here data mapping tools we showed up
for data mapping tools data mapping
software data mapping software data
Discovery tools data Discovery tools and
uh if I just keep scrolling through a
little bit this looks pretty on point
and this is the advantage because
they're using exact match it reduces uh
the spillover of irrelevant Search terms
but even then you can still get junk
because of close match variants but this
looks pretty good so what I would do is
I would sort by cost like I did here and
I would just see of the Search terms
that you're spending the most money on
do they represent quality so in the case
of this potential client here the most
of their money in this campaign went on
data mapping tools and they want to show
up for data mapping tools the challenge
though is they haven't gotten any
conversions yet even though they spent
$300 so remember it's it's the two parts
it's traffic right and it's conversion
right it's the you need the landing page
and you need good quality traffic coming
to the landing page so this could be an
issue of a landing page issue so we'll
see as we go through this audit if
that's the case for this client uh but
as far as the traffic component goes
they're doing a good job like they're
showing up for what they want to show up
for which is amazing so this looks good
to me I'm going to come back here and
I'm going to mark this complete and I'm
just going to leave a note to myself
leveraging exact match like exact match
paying
off quality SRT
report okay let's see do you have a
strong negative keyword list in place so
if we go here to negative keywords do
they have negative keywords in place
they do data mapping Discovery research
keywords I would recommend that you go
through the negative keyword list and
you actually look through what's inside
each one and then also see if there's an
opportunity to add more so just looking
at this really quickly I can tell
they're not blocking things like
employment they're not blocking things
around competitors I don't see a
competitor negative keyword list so
that's an
opportunity opportunity to block
employment
competitors and uh in the Google ads
paid search planning template that we
covered in B2B glads 101 we have a bunch
of dtive keyword list templates that you
can leverage um but anywh who so that
looks like an opportunity for us so I'm
going to mark that
complete next do you have the
appropriate match types for your your
keywords so in their case it's all exact
match so I don't if I mean this is done
I can just mark this complete but what
you're really looking for here is if you
notice the client is telling you or or
you know you're working internally and
your goals are quality right you want to
drive more sales qualified leads more
converted trials and you want more
quality not necessarily just more volume
but obviously in SAS we want both let's
be real but essentially if you're using
match types like broad match or or
phrase match and you're not getting any
conversions that's that could be a a red
flag so just be congruent here and like
just take a look at your match types
it's okay to use broad match it's okay
to use phrase match it's okay to use
exact match but as long as within the
right context so the whole point of this
step is just make sure you're actually
using the right match type so if you're
saying you're using exact you're
actually using exact right and that's
really easy to do you just go to the
keyword level you can press G on your
your campaign uh shortcut and it'll take
you here and you can see I'm using the
right match type so that's a pretty
self-explanatory
one
okay and lastly is are your keywords bid
set at an optimal amount if applicable
so if you're using automated bidding you
don't have to worry about this step you
can just ignore it but if you're using
manual bidding which this client
actually is using manual bidding
sometimes what happens is if your manual
bid is too low and you come here into
the keyword tab it'll show you you're
below the first page bid estimate and I
recommend that you always have the
keyword amount at least high enough to
the first page bit estimate so you can
actually deliver so in this case we
don't see that that doesn't seem to be
the case so we're fine but uh if that
was the case I would make a note of it
so that we can actually in increase
those bids so we can get more delivery
or just change our bid strategy to Max
clicks set a bid cap and then we're not
throttled anymore or in their case if
they have conversions start to test
something conversion based terms of
bidding so we're good here marking that
complete and that is it we just reviewed
all of our
keywords pretty straightforward and uh
now we'll move on to add and extensions
in the next one your action item for
this lesson is to review your keywords
and Mark each completed step within the
checklist template I hope you received a
ton of value so far please share ad
conversion with your colleagues or leave
us a testimonial we appreciate any help
spreading the word I'll see you in the
next one
[Music]